How is a space program stored? 
We first need to make a kit of all parts of a space program




What is a space program?
A space program is a document that clearly defines every room in a building project.
Typically they are made on excel. However for very complex buildings like a Hospital,
the number of rooms can exceed 500. This calls for a much more structured document management


Section 1: Structure of the Space Program

How have we structured the space program?
The structure is as follows -

-->buildings
---->Sections
------->Department Groups
---------->Departments
------------->Rooms/Spaces
---------------->Objects

Definitions:

buildings:
Scoped project that the client envisions to function as an entity.
eg- Hospital, Medical College, Laboratory, etc..

Sections:
The broad range of services offered in the building.
eg- Emergency Care, Inpatient Care, Ambulatory Care, Academics, Accomodation, etc..

Department Groups:
The various departments that constitute a service.
eg- ICU and Ward/Private Beds in Inpatient care.
eg- Broad Speciality OPD and Super Speciality OPD in Ambulatory care.
eg- Staff/ Relative/ Student Accomodation in Accomodation.

Departments:
A department is a clearly idenitifable collection of rooms/spaces.
eg- Dermat OPD in BS OPD.
eg- SICU in ICU
eg- General Ward in Inpatient care

Rooms/Spaces:
The singleton element with a defined function. 
eg- Clean Utility in a Ward.
eg- AHU Room for an ICU.
eg- Change Cubical of the Surgical Suite

Objects:
The beds, furniture, equipment (clinical or mechanical), fixtures that are present in a room.
eg- Beds in a Ward
eg- Table in Consultation room
eg- AHU Machine in an AHU room

Each element on different scales has an entry in the master list tables on Hosmac Database.


What is the Space Program Tree?
The Tree is the pre-configured Section structure of the Space Program.
It is the template after which each space program is modelled after.

Why does the Tree exist?
It exists to navigate the building in a clearly defined manner. 

What is fixed by the Tree?
The Section-->Department Group-->Department locked by the tree.
This means that a user cannot change the hierachy here without changing the template Tree itself
The Department-->Room-->Object is pre-filled by the tree, but allows users to add extra rooms and objects




Section 2: Questionaire - Keydrivers, Facility Mix, Bed Distribution Matrix

